Specialization: a situation where individuals, firms, regions & nations concentrate upon producing some goods 	

Division of labor: the breaking down of the process of production into a series of tasks or specialization of economic activity 	by product or process.

Specialization in individual:
Advantages:
- Increase in efficiency.
- Increase in skills
- Increase in wages
- Cost effective
- Saves time
Disadvantages:
- Boredom
- Repetitive
- Fall in morale
- Difficult to switch jobs
- Increases dependency
- Unemployment

Specialization of firms: a firm only produce one range of product only.
Advantages:
- Increases efficiency
- Increase production/output
- Reduce average cost
- Economies of scale (the more the firm produces, the lower the unit cost)
Disadvantages: should demand for the goods decrease, it may result in reduced profits/loss

Specialization by a nation:
- Means the nation is not a subsistence economy. 
- It does not produce all goods & services it consumes.
- It produces some products and trades the products it does not produce - it will have to be imported (allows for international trade).
Advantages:
- Increase efficiency, output, GDP.
- Increase in living standards.
- Necessitate international trade - more goods & services enjoyed.  
Disadvantages:
- Dependent on others.
- If there is a decrease in demand for goods:
	+ Increased unemployment.
	+ Lowered GDP.

Medium of exchange: generally acceptable as a mean of payment for goods & services
- Money avoids the use of barter and the need for a double coincidence of wants. It separates the 

Unit of account: 
- Money facilitates a price system where goods & services can be measured against a common standard
- Prices of Factors of Production can also be established.
- The use of money permits individuals to readily compare the relative worth of various goods & services.

Store of value:
- People want to be able to store their wealth and want a means of saving.
- Money is the convenient method to hold wealth.
- It can be saved.

Standard of deferred payments:
- Money is used as a standard of differed payments for transactions involving future payments such as hire purchase, mortgages, lending, borrowing and buying on credit.
- Debt obligations 
