Lecture 5: Basic Economic Problems

- Objectives:
	+ Decision making at the margin.
	+ Weighing between marginal costs and marginal benefits.
	+ Terminology: marginal utility, marginal cost, marginal revenue.
	+ To explain the features and function of money.

Rational decision making
------------------------
- Decision making at the margin:
	+ Rational choices involving opportunity cost.
	+ Choices made by consumers, workers and firms by weighting up costs and benefits of any activity.

- Decisions always made at margin:
	+ involving weighing up costs and benefits of each additional unit of an activity.
	+ a small change in one economic variable will lead to further (small) changes in other variables.
	-> Marginal benefit & marginal cost.

- Marginal decision making: 
- Marginal costs = addition to total cost due to an 


Money
-----
- Definition: money is anything that is generally acceptable as means of payment to buy good and services.

- Legal tender: money must be accepted legally as a means of payment.
	+ Money facilitates specialization.
	+ Money enabled the smooth operations of businesses and international transaction in the modern global economy.

- Provides liquidity: the ability to convert an asset into cash without a loss in value.
	+ Cash is the most liquid form of asset (notes and coins in an economy).
	+ The more liquid an asset, the easier it is to convert it into money.

- Near/quasi money: non-cash assets that can quickly be turned into cash to settle some but not all debts.
	+ Examples: savings accounts, foreign currency, bonds, etc. can only fulfill some but not all of the functions of money, cannot be used as a medium of exchange but as a measure of value and store of value.

- Cheque is not a form of money but is simply a means of payment/used as a method of payment.

- Bank deposits: money that is held in accounts with a financial institutions.

- Money substitutes: anything that can be used as a medium of exchange but which are not stores of value such as charge cards and credit cards.

- Characteristics:
	+ Divisibility
	+ Acceptability
	+ Durability
	+ Portability
	+ Limited in supply/scarcity
	+ Stability of supply
	+ Not easily forged
	+ Uniformity
	+ Stability of value
	+ Recognizability

- Functions of money:
	+ As a medium of exchange
	+ As a store of value
	+ As a unit of account
	+ As a standard for deferred payments.
